# Three

[Scan](https://archive.org/details/passing00lars/page/2/mode/2up?view=theater) | [LibriVox](https://www.archive.org/download/passing_etk_librivox/passing_11_larsen.mp3)

As IF In answer to her wish, the very next day 
Irene came face to face with Bellew. 

She had gone downtown with Fellse 
Freeland to shop. The day was an exceptionally 
cold one, with a strong wind that had whipped 
a dusky red into Felise's smooth golden cheeks 
and driven moisture Into Irene's soft brown 
eyes. 

Clinging to each other, with heads bent 
against the wind, they turned out of the Avenue into Fifty-seventh Street. A sudden bluster 
flung them around the corner with unexpected 
quickness and they collided with a man. 

"Pardon," Irene begged laughingly, 
and looked up Into the face of Clare Kendry's 
husband. 

"Mrs. Redfield!" 

His hat came off. He held out his 
hand, smiling genially. 

But the smile faded at once. Surprise,  incredulity, and — was it understanding? — 
passed over his features. 

He had, Irene knew, become conscious 
of Felise, golden, with curly black Negro hair, 
whose arm was still linked in her own. She 
was sure, now, of the understanding in his 
face, as he looked at her again and then back at 
Felise. And displeasure. 

He didn't, however, withdraw his outstretched hand. Not at once. 

But Irene didn't take it. Instinctively, 
in the first glance of recognition, her face had 
become a mask. Now she turned on him a 
totally uncomprehending look, a bit questioning. Seeing that he still stood with hand outstretched, she gave him the cool appraising 
stare which she reserved for mashers, and 
drew Felise on. 

Felise drawled: "Aha! Been ^passing,' 
have you? Well, I've queered that." 

"Yes, I'm afraid you have." 

"Why, Irene Redfield! You sound as if 
you cared terribly. I'm sorry." 

"I do, but not for the reason you think. 
 I don't believe I've ever gone native in my life 
except for the sake of convenience, restaurants, 
theatre tickets, and things like that. Never socially I mean, except once. You've just passed 
the only person that I've ever met disguised as 
a white woman." 

"Awfully sorry. Be sure your sin will 
find you out and all that. Tell me about it." 

'Td like to. It would amuse you. But I 
can't." 

Felise's laughter was as languidly nonchalant as her cool voice. "Can it possible that 
the honest Irene has — Oh, do look at that 
coat! There. The red one. Isn't it a dream?" 

Irene was thinking: "I had my chance 
and didn't take It. I had only to speak and to 
Introduce him to Felise with the casual remark 
that he was Clare's husband. Only that. Fool. 
Fool." That Instinctive loyalty to a race. Why 
couldn't she get free of It? Why should It Include Clare? Clare, who'd shown little enough 
consideration for her, and hers. What she felt 
was not so much resentment as a dull despair 
because she could not change herself In this re spect, could not separate individuals from the 
race, herself from Clare Kendry. 

"Let's go home, Felise. I'm so tired I 
could drop." 

"Why, we haven't done half the things 
we planned." 

"I know, but it's too cold to be running 
all over town. But you stay down if you want 


to. 


"I think I'll do that, if you don't mind." 


And now another problem confronted 
Irene. She must tell Clare of this meeting. 
Warn her. But how? She hadn't seen her for 
days. Writing and telephoning were equally 
unsafe. And even if it was possible to get in 
touch with her, what good would it do? If Bellew hadn't concluded that he'd made a mistake, 
if he was certain of her Identity — and he was 
nobody's fool — telling Clare wouldn't avert the 
results of the encounter. Besides, it was too 
late. Whatever was in store for Clare Kendry 
had already overtaken her. 

Irene was conscious of a feeling of relieved thankfulness at the thought that she 
was probably rid of Clare, and without having 
lifted a finger or uttered one word. 

But she did mean to tell Brian about 
meeting John Bellew. 

But that, it seemed, was impossible. 
Strange. Something held her back. Each time 
she was on the verge of saying: "I ran into 
Clare's husband on the street downtown today. I'm sure he recognized me, and Felise was 
with me," she failed to speak. It sounded too 
much like the warning she wanted it to be. Not 
even in the presence of the boys at dinner could 
she make the bare statement. 

The evening dragged. At last she said 
good-night and went upstairs, the words unsaid. 

She thought: "Why didn't I tell him? 
Why didn't I? If trouble comes from this, I'll 
never forgive myself. I'll tell him when he 
comes up." 

She took up a book, but she could not 
read, so oppressed was she by a nameless foreboding. 
 What if Bellew should divorce Clare? 
Could he? There was the Rhinelander case. 
But in France, in Paris, such things were very 
easy. If he divorced her — If Clare were free — 
But of all the things that could happen, that 
was the one she did not want. She must get her 
mind away from that possibility. She must. 

Then came a thought which she tried to 

drive away. If Clare should die ! Then — Oh, 

it was vile! To think, yes, to wish that! She 

"  felt faint and sick. But the thought stayed with 

her. She could not get rid of it. 

She heard the outer door open. Close. 
Brian had gone out. She turned her face into 
her pillow to cry. But no tears came. 

She lay there awake, thinking of things 
past. Of her courtship and marriage and Junior's birth. Of the time they had bought the ^ 
house in which they had lived so long and so 
happily. Of the time Ted had passed his pneumonia crisis and they knew he would live. And 
of other sweet painful memories that would 
never come again. 

Above everything else she had wanted, 
 had striven, to keep undisturbed the pleasant 
routine of her life. And now Clare Kendry had 
come into It, and with her the menace of Impermanence. 

''Dear God," she prayed, "make March 
come quickly." 

By and by she slept. 
