# One

It was the last letter in Irene Redfield's little 
pile of morning mail. After her other ordinary 
and clearly directed letters the long envelope 
of thin Italian paper with its almost illegible 
scrawl seemed out of place and alien. And there 
was, too, something mysterious and slightly furtive about it. A thin sly thing which bore no 
return address to betray the sender. Not that 
she hadn't immediately known who its sender 
was. Some two years ago she had one very like 
it in outward appearance. Furtive, but yet in 
some peculiar, determined way a little flaunting. Purple ink. Foreign paper of extraordinary 
size. 

It had been, Irene noted, postmarked in 
New York the day before. Her brows came together in a tiny frown. The frown, however, 
was more from perplexity than from annoyance; though there was in her thoughts an element of both. She was wholly unable to compre hend such an attitude towards danger as she was 
sure the letter's contents would reveal; and she 
disliked the idea of opening and reading it. 

This, she reflected, was of a piece with 
all that she knew of Clare Kendry. Stepping always on the edge of danger. Always aware, but 
not drawing back or turning aside. Certainly 
not because of any alarms or feeling of outrage 
on the part of others. 

And for a swift moment Irene Redfield 
seemed to see a pale small girl sitting on a 
ragged blue sofa, sewing pieces of bright red 
cloth together, while her drunken father, a 
tall, powerfully built man, raged threateningly 
up and down the shabby room, bellowing 
curses and making spasmodic lunges at her 
which were not the less frightening because 
they were, for the most part. Ineffectual. Sometimes he did manage to reach her. But only 
the fact that the child had edged herself and 
her poor sewing over to the farthermost corner of the sofa suggested that she was in any 
way perturbed by this menace to herself and 
her work. 

Clare had known well enough that it 
was unsafe to take a portion of the dollar that 
was her weekly wage for the doing of many 
errands for the dressmaker who lived on the 
top floor of the building of which Bob Kendry 
was janitor. But that knowledge had not deterred her. She wanted to go to her Sunday 
school's picnic, and she had made up her mind 
to wear a new dress. So, In spite of certain unpleasantness and possible danger, she had 
taken the money to buy the material for that 
pathetic little red frock. 

There had been, even In those days, 
nothing sacrificial In Clare Kendry's Idea of 
life, no allegiance beyond her own Immediate 
desire. She was selfish, and cold, and hard. And 
yet she had, too, a strange capacity of transforming warmth and passion, verging sometimes almost on theatrical heroics. 

Irene, who was a year or more older 
than Clare, remembered the day that Bob Kendry had been brought home dead, killed in 
a silly saloon-fight. Clare, who was at that 
time a scant fifteen years old, had just stood 
 there with her lips pressed together, her thin 
arms folded across her narrow chest, staring 
down at the familiar pasty-white face of her 
parent with a sort of disdain in her slanting 
black eyes. For a very long time she had stood 
like that, silent and staring. Then, quite suddenly, she had given way to a torrent of weeping, swaying her thin body, tearing at her 
bright hair, and stamping her small feet. The 
outburst had ceased as suddenly as it had begun. She glanced quickly about the bare room, 
taking everyone in, even the two policemen, in 
a sharp look of flashing scorn. And, in the next 
instant, she had turned and vanished through 
the door. 

Seen across the long stretch of years, 
the thing had more the appearance of an outpouring of pent-up fury than of an overflow of 
grief for her dead father; though she had been, 
Irene admitted, fond enough of him In her own 
rather catlike way. 

Catlike. Certainly that was the word 
which best described Clare Kendry, if any single word could  describe her. pometlmes she 
 was hard and apparently without feeling at all; 
sometimes she was affectionate and rashly Impulsive. And there was about her an amazing 
soft malice, hidden well away until provoked. 
Then she was capable of scratching, and very 
effectively too. Or, driven to anger, she would 
fight with a ferocity and impetuousness that 
disregarded or forgot any danger; superior 
strength, numbers, or other unfavourable circumstances. How savagely she had clawed 
those boys the day they had hooted her parent 
and sung a derisive rhyme, of their own composing, which pointed out certain eccentricities 
in his careening gait! And how deliberately 
she had — 

Irene brought her thoughts back to the 
present, to the letter from Clare Kendry that 
she still held unopened in her hand. With a little feeling of apprehension, she very slowly cut 
the envelope, drew out the folded sheets, spread 
them, and began to read. 

It was, she saw at once, what she had 
expected since learning from the postmark 
that Clare was in the city. An extravagantly 
 phrased wish to see her again. Well, she 
needn't and wouldn't, Irene told herself, accede to that. Nor would she assist Clare to 
realize her foolish desire to return for a moment to that life which long ago, and of her 
own choice, she had left behind her. 

She ran through the letter, puzzling 
out, as best she could, the carelessly formed 
words or making instinctive guesses at them. 

". . . For I am lonely, so lonely . . . 
cannot help longing to be with you again, as I 
have never longed for anything before; and I 
have wanted many things in my life. . . . You 
can't know how in this pale life of mine I am 
all the time seeing the bright pictures of that 
other that I once thought I was glad to be free 
of. . . . It's like an ache, a pain that never 
ceases. . . ." Sheets upon thin sheets of it. 
And ending finally with, "and it's your fault, 
'Rene dear. At least partly. For I wouldn't 
now, perhaps, have this terrible, this wild desire if I hadn't seen you that time in Chicago. . . ." 
 Brilliant red patches flamed in Irene 
Redfield's warm olive cheeks. 

"That time in Chicago." The words 
stood out from among the many paragraphs of 
other words, bringing with them a clear, sharp 
remembrance, in which even now, after two 
years, humiliation, resentment, and rage were 
mingled. 