# Two

This is what Irene Redfield remembered. 

Chicago. August. A brilliant day, hot, 
with a brutal staring sun pouring down rays 
that were like molten rain. A day on which the 
very outlines of the buildings shuddered as if 
In protest at the heat. Quivering lines sprang 
up from baked pavements and wriggled along 
the shining car-tracks. The automobiles parked 
at the kerbs were a dancing blaze, and the 
glass of the shop-windows threw out a blinding radiance. Sharp particles of dust rose from 
the burning sidewalks, stinging the seared or 
dripping skins of wilting pedestrians. What 
small breeze there was seemed like the breath 
of a flame fanned by slow bellows. 

It was on that day of all others that 
Irene set out to shop for the things which 
she had promised to take home from Chicago 
to her two small sons, Brian junior and Theodore. Characteristically, she had put it off un til only a few crowded days remained of her 
long visit. And only this sweltering one was 
free of engagements till the evening. 

Without too much trouble she had got 
the mechanical aeroplane for Junior. But the 
drawing-book, for which Ted had so gravely 
and insistently given her precise directions, had 
sent her in and out of five shops without success. 

It was while she was on her way to a 
sixth place that right before her smarting eyes 
a man toppled over and became an inert 
crumpled heap on the scorching cement. About 
the lifeless figure a little crowd gathered. Was 
the man dead, or only faint? someone asked 
her. But Irene didn't know and didn't try to 
discover. She edged her way out of the increasing crowd, feeling disagreeably damp and 
sticky and soiled from contact with so many 
sweating bodies. 

For a moment she stood fanning herself and dabbing at her moist face with an Inadequate scrap of handkerchief. Suddenly she 
was aware that the whole street had a wobbly 
 look, and realized that she was about to faint. 
With a quick perception of the need for Immediate safety, she lifted a wavering hand In 
the direction of a cab parked directly In front 
of her. The perspiring driver jumped out and 
guided her to his car. He helped, almost lifted 
her In. She sank down on the hot leather seat. 

For a minute her thoughts were nebulous. They cleared. 

"I guess," she told her Samaritan, "It's 
tea I need. On a roof somewhere." 

"The Drayton, ma'am?" he suggested. 
"They do say as how it's always a breeze up 
there." 

"Thank you. I think the Drayton'll do 
nicely," she told him. 

There was that little grating sound of 
the clutch being slipped in as the man put 
the car in gear and slid deftly out into the boiling traffic. Reviving under the warm breeze 
stirred up by the moving cab, Irene made some 
small attempts to repair the damage that the 
heat and crowds had done to her appearance. 
 All too soon the rattling vehicle shot 
towards the sidewalk and stood still. The 
driver sprang out and opened the door before 
the hotel's decorated attendant could reach It. 
She got out, and thanking him smilingly as well 
as in a more substantial manner for his kind 
helpfulness and understanding, went In through 
the Drayton's wide doors. 

Stepping out of the elevator that had 
brought her to the roof, she was led to a table 
just In front of a long window whose gently 
moving curtains suggested a cool breeze. It 
was, she thought, like being wafted upward on 
a magic carpet to another world, pleasant, 
quiet, and strangely remote from the sizzling 
one that she had left below. 

The tea, when it came, was all that 
she had desired and expected. In fact, so much 
was it what she had desired and expected that 
after the first deep cooling drink she was able 
to forget It, only now and then sipping, a little 
absently, from the tall green glass, while she 
surveyed the room about her or looked out 
over some lower buildings at the bright un Stirred blue of the lake reaching away to an 
undetected horizon. 

She had been gazing down for some 
time at the specks of cars and people creeping 
about in streets, and thinking how silly they 
looked, when on taking up her glass she was 
surprised to find it empty at last. She asked 
for more tea and while she waited, began to recall the happenings of the day and to wonder 
what she was to do about Ted and his book. 
Why was it that almost invariably he wanted 
something that was difficult or impossible to 
get? Like his father. For ever wanting something that he couldn't have. 

Presently there were voices, a man's 
booming one and a woman's slightly husky. A 
waiter passed her, followed by a sweetly 
scented woman in a fluttering dress of green 
chifi^on whose mingled pattern of narcissuses, 
jonquils, and hyacinths was a reminder of pleasantly chill spring days. Behind her there was 
a man, very red In the face, who was mopping 
his neck and forehead with a big crumpled 
handkerchief. 
 "Oh dear I" Irene groaned, rasped by 
annoyance, for after a little discussion and commotion they had stopped at the very next table. 
She had been alone there at the window and 
It had been so satisfylngly quiet. Now, of 
course, they would chatter. 

But no. Only the woman sat down. The 
man remained standing, abstractedly pinching 
the knot of his bright blue tie. Across the small 
space that separated the two tables his voice 
carried clearly. 

"See you later, then," he declared, looking down at the woman. There was pleasure 
in his tones and a smile on his face. 

His companion's lips parted In some 
answer, but her words were blurred by the 
little intervening distance and the medley of 
noises floating up from the streets below. They 
didn't reach Irene. But she noted the peculiar 
caressing smile that accompanied them. 

The man said: "Well, I suppose I'd 
better," and smiled again, and said good-bye, 
and left. 

An   attractive-looking   woman,   was 
 Irene's opinion, with those dark, almost black, 
eyes and that wide mouth like a scarlet flower 
against the Ivory of her skin. Nice clothes too, 
just right for the weather, thin and cool without being mussy, as summer things were so 
apt to be. 

A waiter was taking her order. Irene 
saw her smile up at him as she murmured something— thanks, maybe. It was an odd sort of 
smile. Irene couldn't quite define it, but she 
was sure that she would have classed It, coming from another woman, as being just a shade 
too provocative for a waiter. About this one, 
however, there was something that made her 
hesitate to name It that. A certain impression 
of assurance, perhaps. 

The waiter came back with the order. 
Irene watched her spread out her napkin, saw 
the silver spoon in the white hand slit the dull 
gold of the melon. Then, conscious that she had 
been staring, she looked quickly away. 

Her mind returned to her own affairs. 
She had settled, definitely, the problem of the 
proper one of two frocks for the bridge party 
 that night, In rooms whose atmosphere would 
be so thick and hot that every breath would be 
like breathing soup. The dress decided, her 
thoughts had gone back to the snag of Ted's 
book, her unseeing eyes far away on the lake, 
when by some sixth sense she was acutely 
aware that someone was watching her. 

Very slowly she looked around, and 
into the dark eyes of the woman In the green 
frock at the next table. But she evidently failed 
to realize that such intense interest as she was 
showing might be embarrassing, and continued 
to stare. Her demeanour was that of one who 
with utmost singleness of mind and purpose 
was determined to impress firmly and accurately each detail of Irene's features upon her 
memory for all time, nor showed the slightest 
trace of disconcertment at having been detected 
in her steady scrutiny. 

Instead, it was Irene who was put out. 
Feeling her colour heighten under the continued 
Inspection, she slid her eyes down. What, she 
wondered, could be the reason for such persistent attention? Had she. In her haste In the 
 taxi, put her hat on backwards? Guardedly she 
felt at it. No. Perhaps there was a streak of 
powder somewhere on her face. She made a 
quick pass over it with her handkerchief. Something wrong with her dress? She shot a glance 
over it. Perfectly all right. What was it? 

Again she looked up, and for a moment her brown eyes politely returned the 
stare of the other's black ones, which never 
for an instant fell or wavered. Irene made a 
little mental shrug. Oh well, let her look! She 
tried to treat the woman and her watching 
with indifference, but she couldn't. All her efforts to ignore her, it, were futile. She stole 
another glance. Still looking. What strange 
languorous eyes she had! 

And gradually there rose in Irene a 
small inner disturbance, odious and hatefully 
familiar. She laughed softly, but her eyes 
flashed. 

Did that woman, could that woman, 
somehow know that here before her very eyes 
on the roof of the Drayton sat a Negro? 

Absurd! Impossible! White people were  SO stupid about such things for all that they 
usually asserted that they were able to tell; and 
by the most ridiculous means, finger-nails, 
palms of hands, shapes of ears, teeth, and 
other equally silly rot. They always took her 
for an Italian, a Spaniard, a Mexican, or a 
gipsy. Never, when she was alone, had they 
even remotely seemed to suspect that she was a 
Negro. No, the woman sitting there staring at 
her couldn't possibly know. 

Nevertheless, Irene felt, in turn, anger, 
scorn, and fear slide over her. It wasn't that 
she was ashamed of being a Negro, or even of 
having it declared. It was the idea of being 
ejected from any place, even in the polite and 
tactful way in which the Drayton would probably do it, that disturbed her. 

But she looked, boldly this time, back 
into the eyes still frankly intent upon her. 
They did not seem to her hostile or resentful. 
Rather, Irene had the feeling that they were 
ready to smile if she would. Nonsense, of 
course. The feeling passed, and she turned 
away with the firm intention of keeping her 
 gaze on the lake, the roofs of the buildings 
across the way, the sky, anywhere but on that 
annoying woman. Almost immediately, however, her eyes were back again. In the midst of 
her fog of uneasiness she had been seized by a 
desire to outstare the rude observer. Suppose 
the woman did know or suspect her race. She 
couldn't prove it. 

Suddenly her small fright Increased. 
Her neighbour had risen and was coming 
towards her. What was going to happen now? 

"Pardon me," the woman said pleasantly, "but I think I know you." Her slightly 
husky voice held a dubious note. 

Looking up at her, Irene's suspicions 
and fears vanished. There was no mistaking 
the friendliness of that smile or resisting Its 
charm. Instantly she surrendered to it and 
smiled too, as she said: "I'm afraid you're mistaken." 

"Why, of course, I know you!" the 
other exclaimed. "Don't tell me you're not 
Irene Westover. Or do they still call you 
'Rene?" 
 In the brief second before her answer, 
Irene tried vainly to recall where and when 
this woman could have known her. There, in 
Chicago. And before her marriage. That much 
was plain. High school? College? Y. W. C. A. 
committees? High school, most likely. What 
white girls had she known well enough to have 
been familiarly addressed as 'Rene by them? 
The woman before her didn't fit her memory 
of any of them. Who was she? 

"Yes, I'm Irene Westover. And though 
nobody calls me 'Rene any more, it's good to 
hear the name again. And you — " She hesitated, ashamed that she could not remember, 
and hoping that the sentence would be finished 
for her. 

"Don't .you know me? Not really, 
'Rene?" 

"I'm sorry, but just at the minute I 
can't seem to place you." 

Irene studied the lovely creature standing beside her for some clue to her identity. 
Who could she be? Where and when had they 
met? And through her perplexity there came 
 the thought that the trick which her memory 
had played her was for some reason more 
gratifying than disappointing to her old acquaintance, that she didn't mind not being 
recognized. 

And, too, Irene felt that she was just 
about to remember her. For about the woman 
was some quality, an intangible something, too 
vague to define, too remote to seize, but which 
was, to Irene Redfield, very familiar. And that 
voice. Surely she'd heard those husky tones 
somewhere before. Perhaps before time, contact, or something had been at them, making 
them into a voice remotely suggesting England. 
Ah ! Could it have been in Europe that they 
had met? 'Rene. No. 

"Perhaps," Irene began, "you — " 

The woman laughed, a lovely laugh, a 
small sequence of notes that was like a trill and 
also like the ringing of a delicate bell fashioned 
of a precious metal, a tinkling. 

Irene drew a quick sharp breath. 
"Clare!" she exclaimed, "not really Clare 
Kendry?" 
 So great was her astonishment that she 
had started to rise. 

"No, no, don't get up," Clare Kendry 
commanded, and sat down herself. "You've 
simply got to stay and talk. We'll have something more. Tea ? Fancy meeting you here ! It's 
simply too, too lucky!" 

"It's awfully surprising," Irene told 
her, and, seeing the change In Clare's smile, 
knew that she had revealed a corner of her 
own thoughts. But she only said: "I'd never 
In this world have known you If you hadn't 
laughed. You are changed, you know. And yet, 
in a way, you're just the same." 

"Perhaps," Clare replied. "Oh, just a 
second." 

She gave her attention to the waiter 
at her side. "M-mm, let's see. Two teas. And 
bring some cigarettes. Y-es, they'll be all right. 
Thanks." Again that odd upward smile. Now, 
Irene was sure that it was too provocative for 
a waiter. 

While Clare had been giving the order, 
Irene made a rapid mental calculation. It must 
 be, she figured, all of twelve years since she, 
or anybody that she knew, had laid eyes on 
Clare Kendry. 

After her father's death she'd gone to 
live with some relatives, aunts or cousins two or 
three times removed, over on the west side : 
relatives that nobody had known the Kendry's 
possessed until they had turned up at the funeral and taken Clare away with them. 

For about a year or more afterwards 
she would appear occasionally among her old 
friends and acquaintances on the south side for 
short little visits that were, they understood, 
always stolen from the endless domestic tasks 
in her new home. With each succeeding one 
she was taller, shabbier, and more belligerently 
sensitive. And each time the look on her face 
was more resentful and brooding. "I'm worried about Clare, she seems so unhappy," Irene 
remembered her mother saying. The visits 
dwindled, becoming shorter, fewer, and further 
apart until at last they ceased. 

Irene's father, who had been fond of 
Bob Kendry, made a special trip over to the 
 west side about two months after the last time 
Clare had been to see them and returned with 
the bare information that he had seen the relatives and that Clare had disappeared. What 
else he had confided to her mother, in the privacy of their own room, Irene didn't know. 

But she had had something more than a 
vague suspicion of its nature. For there had 
been rumours. Rumours that were, to girls of 
eighteen and nineteen years, interesting and 
exciting. 

There was the one about Clare Kendry's having been seen at the dinner hour in a 
fashionable hotel in company with another 
woman and two men, all of them white. And 
dressed! And there was another which told of 
her driving in Lincoln Park with a man, unmistakably white, and evidently rich. Packard 
limousine, chauffeur in livery, and all that. 
There had been others whose context Irene 
could no longer recollect, but all pointing in 
the same glamorous direction. 

And she could remember quite vividly 
how, when they used to repeat and discuss these 
 tantalizing stories about Clare, the girls would 
always look knowingly at one another and then, 
with little excited giggles, drag away their 
eager shining eyes and say with lurking undertones of regret or disbelief some such thing as: 
"Oh, well, maybe she's got a job or something," 
or "After all, it mayn't have been Clare," or 
"You can't believe all you hear." 

And always some girl, more matter-offact or more frankly malicious than the rest, 
would declare: "Of course it was Clare! Ruth 
said it was and so did Frank, and they certainly know her when they see her as well as 
we do." And someone else would say: "Yes, 
you can bet it was Clare all right." And then 
they would all join in asserting that there could 
be no mistake about it's having been Clare, 
and that such circumstances could mean only 
one thing. Working indeed! People didn't take 
their servants to the Shelby for dinner. Certainly not all dressed up like that. There would 
follow insincere regrets, and somebody would 
say: "Poor girl, I suppose it's true enough, but 
 what can you expect. Look at her father. And 
her mother, they say, would have run away If 
she hadn't died. Besides, Clare always had a — 
a — having way with her." 

Precisely that ! The words came to Irene 
as she sat there on the Drayton roof, facing 
Clare Kendry. "A having way." Well, Irene 
acknowledged, judging from her appearance 
and manner, Clare seemed certainly to have 
succeeded In having a few of the things that 
she wanted. 

It was, Irene repeated, after the Interval of the waiter, a great surprise and a very 
pleasant one to see Clare again after all those 
years, twelve at least. 

"Why, Clare, you're the last person In 
the world I'd have expected to run Into. I guess 
that's why I didn't know you." 

Clare answered gravely: "Yes. It Is 
twelve years. But I'm not surprised to see you, 
'Rene. That Is, not so very. In fact, ever since 
I've been here, I've more or less hoped that I 
should, or someone.  Preferably you, though. 
 Still, I Imagine that's because I've thought of 
you often and often, while you — I'll wager 
you've never given me a thought." 

It was true, of course. After the first 
speculations and indictments, Clare had gone 
completely from Irene's thoughts. And from 
the thoughts of others too — if their conversation was any indication of their thoughts. 

Besides, Clare had never been exactly 
one of the group, just as she'd never been 
merely the janitor's daughter, but the daughter 
of Mr. Bob Kendry, who, it was true, was a 
janitor, but who also, it seemed, had been in 
college with some of their fathers. Just how or 
why he happened to be a janitor, and a very inefficient one at that, they none of them quite 
knew. One of Irene's brothers, who had put the 
question to their father, had been told: "That's 
something that doesn't concern you," and given 
him the advice to be careful not to end in the 
same manner as "poor Bob." 

No, Irene hadn't thought of Clare 
Kendry. Her own life had been too crowded. 
So, she supposed, had the lives of other peo pie. She defended her — their — forgetfulness. 
"You know how It is. Everybody's so busy. 
People leave, drop out, maybe for a little 
while there's talk about them, or questions; 
then, gradually they're forgotten." 

"Yes, that's natural," Clare agreed. 
And what, she inquired, had they said of her 
for that little while at the beginning before 
they'd forgotten her altogether? 

Irene looked away. She felt the telltale colour rising in her cheeks. "You can't," 
she evaded, "expect me to remember trifles 
like that over twelve years of marriages, births, 
deaths, and the war." 

There followed that trill of notes that 
was Clare Kendry's laugh, small and clear and 
the very essence of mockery. 

"Oh, 'Rene!" she cried, "of course you 
remember I But I won't make you tell me, because I know just as well as if I'd been there 
and heard every unkind word. Oh, I know, I 
know. Frank Danton saw me in the Shelby 
one night. Don't tell me he didn't broadcast 
that, and with embroidery. Others may have 
 seen me at other times. I don't know. But once 
I met Margaret Hammer In Marshall Field's. 
I'd have spoken, was on the very point of doing 
it, but she cut me dead. My dear 'Rene, I assure you that from the way she looked through 
me, even I was uncertain whether I was actually 
there In the flesh or not. I remember It clearly, 
too clearly. It was that very thing which, In 
a way, finally decided me not to go out and 
see you one last time before I went away to 
stay. Somehow, good as all of you, the whole 
family, had always been to the poor forlorn 
child that was me, I felt I shouldn't be able 
to bear that. I mean if any of you, your mother 
or the boys or — Oh, well, I just felt I'd rather 
not know It if you did. And so I stayed away. 
Silly, I suppose. Sometimes I've been sorry I 
didn't go." 

Irene wondered if it was tears that 
made Clare's eyes so luminous. 

"And now 'Rene, I want to hear all 
about you and everybody and everything. 
You're married, I s'pose?" 

Irene nodded. 
 "Yes,"  Clare  said  knowingly,  "you 
would be. Tell me about it/' 

And so for an hour or more they had 
sat there smoking and drinking tea and filling 
in the gap of twelve years with talk. That is, 
Irene did. She told Clare about her marriage 
and removal to New York, about her husband, 
and about her two sons, who were having their 
first experience of being separated from their 
parents at a summer camp, about her mother's 
death, about the marriages of her two brothers. 
She told of the marriages, births and deaths In 
other families that Clare had known, opening 
up, for her, new vistas on the lives of old 
friends and acquaintances. 

Clare drank it all In, these things which 
for so long she had wanted to know and hadn't 
been able to learn. She sat motionless, her 
bright lips slightly parted, her whole face lit by 
the radiance of her happy eyes. Now and then 
she put a question, but for the most part she 
was silent. 

Somewhere outside, a clock struck. 
Brought back to the present, Irene looked down 
 at her watch and exclaimed: "Oh, I must go, 
Clare!" 

A moment passed during which she was 
the prey of uneasiness. It had suddenly occurred 
to her that she hadn't asked Clare anything 
about her own life and that she had a very 
definite unwillingness to do so. And she was 
quite well aware of the reason for that reluctance. But, she asked herself, wouldn't it, 
all things considered, be the kindest thing not 
to ask? If things with Clare were as she — as 
they all — had suspected, wouldn't it be more 
tactful to seem to forget to Inquire how she 
had spent those twelve years? 

Iff It was that "if" which bothered her. 
It might be, it might just be, in spite of all gossip and even appearances to the contrary, that 
there was nothing, had been nothing, that 
couldn't be simply and innocently explained. 
Appearances, she knew now, had a way sometimes of not fitting facts, and if Clare hadn't — 
Well, If they had all been wrong, then certainly 
she ought to express some Interest In what had 
happened to her. It would seem queer and rude 
 if she didn't. But how was she to know? There 
was, she at last decided, no way; so she merely 
said again. "I must go, Clare." 

"Please, not so soon, 'Rene," Clare 
begged, not moving. 

Irene thought: ''She's really almost too 
good-looking. It's hardly any wonder that 
she—" 

''And now, 'Rene dear, that I've found 
you, I mean to see lots and lots of you. We're 
here for a month at least. Jack, that's my husband, is here on business. Poor dear! in this 
heat. Isn't it beastly? Come to dinner with us 
tonight, won't you?" And she gave Irene a curious little sidelong glance and a sly, ironical 
smile peeped out on her full red lips, as if she 
had been in the secret of the other's thoughts 
,  and was mocking her. 

Irene was conscious of a sharp intake 
of breath, but whether it was relief or chagrin 
that she felt, she herself could not have told. 
She said hastily: "I'm afraid I can't, Clare. I'm 
filled up. Dinner and bridge. I'm so sorry." 

"Come tomorrow instead, to tea," Clare 
 insisted. "Then you'll see Margery — she's just 
ten — and Jack too, maybe, if he hasn't got an 
appointment or something." 

From Irene came an uneasy little laugh. 
She had an engagement for tomorrow also and 
she was afraid that Clare would not believe It. 
Suddenly, now, that possibility disturbed her. 
Therefore It was with a half-vexed feeling at 
the sense of undeserved guilt that had come 
upon her that she explained that It wouldn't 
be possible because she wouldn't be free for 
tea, or for luncheon or dinner either. "And the 
next day's Friday when I'll be going away for 
the week-end, Idlewlld, you know. It's quite 
the thing now." And then she had an Inspira* 
tlon. 

"Clare!" she exclaimed, "why don't 
you come up with me? Our place Is probably 
full up — Jim's wife has a way of collecting 
mobs of the most Impossible people — but we 
can always manage to find room for one more. 
And you'll see absolutely everybody." 

In the very moment of giving the in vltatlon she regretted It. What a foolish, what 
an idiotic Impulse to have given way to ! She 
groaned Inwardly as she thought of the endless 
explanations In which it would Involve her, of 
the curiosity, and the talk, and the lifted eyebrows. It wasn't she assured herself, that she 
was a snob, that she cared greatly for the petty 
restrictions and distinctions with which what 
called Itself Negro society chose to hedge Itself about; but that she had a natural and 
deeply rooted aversion to the kind of frontpage notoriety that Clare Kendry's presence In 
Idlewlld, as her guest, would expose her to. And 
here she was, perversely and against all reason, 
inviting her. 

But Clare shook her head. "Really, I'd 
love to, 'Rene," she said, a little mournfully. 
"There's nothing I'd like better. But I couldn't. 
I mustn't, you see. It wouldn't do at all. I'm 
sure you understand. I'm simply crazy to go, 
but I can't." The dark eyes glistened and there 
was a suspicion of a quaver in the husky voice. 
"And believe me, 'Rene, I do thank you for 
 asking me. Don't think I've entirely forgotten 
just what it would mean for you if I went. That 
is, if you still care about such things." 

All indication of tears had gone from 
her eyes and voice, and Irene Redfield, searching her face, had an offended feeling that behind what was now only an ivory mask lurked 
a scornful amusement. She looked away, at the 
wall far beyond Clare. Well, she deserved it, 
for, as she acknowledged to herself, she was 
relieved. And for the very reason at which 
Clare had hinted. The fact that Clare had 
guesssed her perturbation did not, however. In 
any degree lessen that relief. She was annoyed 
at having been detected in what might seem to 
be an insincerity; but that was all. 

The waiter came with Clare's change. 
Irene reminded herself that she ought immediately to go. But she didn't move. 

The truth was, she was curious. There 
were things that she wanted to ask Clare Kendry. She wished to find out about this hazardous 
business of "passing," this breaking away from 
all that was famihar and friendly to take one's 
 chance in another environment, not entirely 
strange, perhaps, but certainly not entirely 
friendly. What, for example, one did about 
background, how one accounted for oneself. 
And how one felt when one came into contact 
with other Negroes. But she couldn't. She was 
unable to think of a single question that in its 
context or its phrasing was not too frankly curious, if not actually impertinent. 

As if aware of her desire and her hesitation, Clare remarked, thoughtfully: "You 
know, 'Rene, I've often wondered why more 
coloured girls, girls like you and Margaret 
Hammer and Esther Dawson and — oh, lots of 
others — never ^passed' over. It's such a frightfully easy thing to do. If one's the type, all 
that's needed is a little nerve." 

"What about background? Family, I 
mean. Surely you can't just drop down on people from nowhere and expect them to receive 
you with open arms, can you?" 

"Almost," Clare asserted. "You'd be 
surprised, 'Rene, how much easier that is with 
white people than with us. Maybe because there 
 are so many more of them, or maybe because 
they are secure and so don't have to bother. I've 
never quite decided." 

Irene was Inclined to be incredulous. 
"You mean that you didn't have to explain 
where you came from? It seems impossible." 
Clare cast a .glance of repressed amusement across the table at her. "As a matter of 
fact, I didn't. Though I suppose under any 
other circumstances I might have had to provide some plausible tale to account for myself. 
I've a good imagination, so I'm sure I could 
have done it quite creditably, and credibly. But 
it wasn't necessary. There were my aunts, you 
see, respectable and authentic enough for anything or anybody." 

"I see. They were 'passing' too." 
"No. They weren't. They were white." 
"Oh!" And in the next instant it came 
back to Irene that she had heard this mentioned 
before; by her father, or, more likely, her 
mother. They were Bob Kendry's aunts. He had 
been a son of their brother's, on the left hand. 
A wild oat. 
 "They were nice old ladies," Clare explained, "very religious and as poor as church 
mice. That adored brother of theirs, my grandfather, got through every penny they had after 
he'd finished his own little bit." 

Clare paused in her narrative to light 
another cigarette. Her smile, her expression, 
Irene noticed, was faintly resentful. 

"Being good Christians," she continued, 
"when dad came to his tipsy end, they did their 
duty and gave me a home of sorts. I was, it was 
true, expected to earn my keep by doing all the 
housework and most of the washing. But do you 
realize, 'Rene, that if it hadn't been for them, 
I shouldn't have had a home in the world?" 

Irene's nod and little murmur were comprehensive, understanding. 

Clare made a small mischievous grimace and proceeded. "Besides, to their notion, 
hard labour was good for me. I had Negro 
blood and they belonged to the generation that 
had written and read long articles headed: 
'Will the Blacks Work?' Too, they weren't 
quite sure that the good God hadn't intended 
 the sons and daughters of Ham to sweat because he had poked fun at old man Noah once 
when he had taken a drop too much. I remember the aunts telling me that that old drunkard 
had cursed Ham and his sons for all time." 

Irene laughed. But Clare remained quite 
serious. 

"It was more than a joke, I assure you, 
'Rene. It was a hard life for a girl of sixteen. 
Still, I had a roof over my head, and food, and 
clothes — such as they were. And there were the 
Scriptures, and talks on morals and thrift and 
industry and the loving-kindness of the good 
Lord." 

"Have you ever stopped to think, 
Clare," Irene demanded, "how much unhappiness and downright cruelty are laid to the loving-kindness of the Lord? And always by His 
most ardent followers, it seems." 

"Have I?" Clare exclaimed. "It, they, 
made me what I am today. For, of course, I 
was determined to get away, to be a person 
and not a charity or a problem, or even a 
daughter of the indiscreet Ham. Then, too, I 
 wanted things. I knew I wasn't bad-looking and 
that I could 'pass.' You can't know, 'Rene, how, 
when I used to go over to the south side, I 
used almost to hate all of you. You had all the 
things I wanted and never had had. It made me 
all the more determined to get them, and others. Do you, can you understand what I felt?" 

She looked up with a pointed and appealing effect, and, evidently finding the sympathetic expression on Irene's face sufficient answer, went on. "The aunts were queer. For 
all their Bibles and praying and ranting about 
honesty, they didn't want anyone to know that 
their darling brother had seduced — ruined, they 
called It — a Negro girl. They could excuse the 
ruin, but they couldn't forgive the tar-brush. 
They forbade me to mention Negroes to the 
neighbours, or even to mention the south side. 
You may be sure that I didn't. I'll bet they 
were good and sorry afterwards." 

She laughed and the ringing bells In 
her laugh had a hard metallic sound. 

"When the chance to get away came, 
that omission was of great value to me. When 
 Jack, a schoolboy acquaintance of some people In the neighbourhood, turned up from 
South America with untold gold, there was no 
one to tell him that I was coloured, and many 
to tell him about the severity and the religiousness of Aunt Grace and Aunt Edna. You can 
guess the rest. After he came, I stopped slipping off to the south side and slipped off to meet 
him Instead. I couldn't manage both. In the 
end I had no great difficulty In convincing him 
that It was useless to talk marriage to the 
aunts. So on the day that I was eighteen, we 
went off and were married. So that's that. 
Nothing could have been easier." 

"Yes, I do see that for you It was easy 
enough. By the way ! I wonder why they didn't 
tell father that you were married. He went 
over to find out about you when you stopped 
coming over to see us. I'm sure they didn't tell 
him. Not that you were married." 

Clare Kendry's eyes were bright with 
tears that didn't fall.  "Oh,  how lovely! To 
have cared enough about me to do that. The 
dear sweet man! Well, they couldn't tell him 
because they didn't know it. I took care of that, 
for I couldn't be sure that those consciences of 
theirs wouldn't begin to work on them afterwards and make them let the cat out of the 
bag. The old things probably thought I was 
living In sin, wherever I was. And it would be 
about what they expected." 

An amused smile lit the lovely face for 
the smallest fraction of a second. After a little 
silence she said soberly: "But I'm sorry if they 
told your father so. That was something I 
hadn't counted on." 

"I'm not sure that they did," Irene told 
her. "He didn't say so, anyway." 

"He wouldn't, 'Rene dear. Not your 
father." 

"Thanks. I'm sure he wouldn't." 

"But you've never answered my question. Tell me, honestly, haven't you ever 
thought of 'passing' ?" 

Irene answered promptly: "No. Why 
should I?" And so disdainful was her voice 
and manner that Clare's face flushed and her 
eyes glinted. Irene hastened to add: "You see, 
 Clare, I've everything I want. Except, perhaps, 
a little more money." 

At that Clare laughed, her spark of 
anger vanished as quickly as it had appeared. 
"Of course," she declared, "that's what everybody wants, just a little more money, even the 
people who have it. And I must say I don't 
blame them. Money's awfully nice to have. In 
fact, all things considered, I think, 'Rene, that 
it's even worth the price." 

Irene could only shrug her shoulders. 
Her reason partly agreed, her instinct wholly 
rebelled. And she could not say why. And 
though conscious that if she didn't hurry away, 
she was going to be late to dinner, she still 
lingered. It was as if the woman sitting on the 
other side of the table, a girl that she had 
known, who had done this rather dangerous 
and, to Irene Redfield, abhorrent thing successfully and had announced herself well satisfied, 
had for her a fascination, strange and compelling. 

Clare Kendry was still leaning back in 
the  tall  chair,  her  sloping  shoulders  against 
 the carved top. She sat with an air of indifferent assurance, as if arranged for, desired. 
About her clung that dim suggestion of polite 
insolence with which a few women are born 
and which some acquire with the coming of 
riches or importance. 

Clare, it gave Irene a little prick of 
satisfaction to recall, hadn't got that by passing herself off as white. She herself had always 
had it. 

Just as she'd always had that pale gold 
hair, which, unsheared still, was drawn loosely 
back from a broad brow, partly hidden by the 
small close hat. Her lips, painted a brilliant 
geranium-red, were sweet and sensitive and a 
little obstinate. A tempting mouth. The face 
across the forehead and cheeks was a trifle too 
wide, but the ivory skin had a peculiar soft 
lustre. And the eyes were magnificent! dark, 
sometimes absolutely black, always luminous, 
and set in long, black lashes. Arresting eyes, 
slow and mesmeric, and with, for all their 
warmth, something withdrawn and secret about 
them. 
 Ah! Surely! They were Negro eyes! 
mysterious and concealing. And set in that ivory 
face under that bright hair, there was about 
them something exotic. 

Yes, Clare Kendry's loveliness was absolute, beyond challenge, thanks to those eyes 
which her grandmother and later her mother 
and father had given her. 

Into those eyes there came a smile and 
over Irene the sense of being petted and caressed. She smiled back. 

"Maybe," Clare suggested, "you can 
come Monday, if you're back. Or, if you're not, 
then Tuesday." ^ 

With a small regretful sigh, Irene informed Clare that she was afraid she wouldn't 
be back by Monday and that she was sure she 
had dozens of things for Tuesday, and that she 
was leaving Wednesday. It might be, however, that she could get out of something Tuesday. 

"Oh, do try. Do put somebody else off. 
The others can see you any time, while I — Why, 
I  may never see you  again!  Think of that, 
 'Rene! You'll have to come. You'll simply 
have to ! I'll never forgive you if you don't." 

At that moment It seemed a dreadful 
thing to think of never seeing Clare Kendry 
again. Standing there under the appeal, the 
caress, of her eyes, Irene had the desire, the 
hope, that this parting wouldn't be the last. 

"I'll try, Clare," she promised gently. 
"I'll call you — or will you call me?" 

"I think, perhaps, I'd better call you. 
Your father's In the book, I know, and the address Is the same. Sixty-four eighteen. Some 
memory, what? Now remember, I'm going to 
expect you. You've got to be able to come." 

Again that peculiar mellowing smile. 

"I'll do my best, Clare." 

Irene gathered up her gloves and bag. 
They stood up. She put out her hand. Clare 
took and held It. 

"It has been nice seeing you again, 
Clare. How pleased and glad father'll be to 
hear about you!" 

"Until Tuesday, then," Clare Kendry 
replied. "I'll spend every minute of the time 
 from now on looking forward to seeing you 
again. Good-bye, 'Rene dear. My love to your 
father, and this kiss for him." 

The sun had gone from overhead, but 
the streets were still like fiery furnaces. The 
languid breeze was still hot. And the scurrying people looked even more wilted than before Irene had fled from their contact. 

Crossing the avenue In the heat, far 
from the coolness of the Drayton's roof, away 
from the seduction of Clare Kendry's smile, 
she was aware of a sense of Irritation with herself because she had been pleased and a little 
flattered at the other's obvious gladness at their 
meeting. 

With her perspiring progress homeward 
this irritation grew, and she began to wonder 
just what had possessed her to make her promise to find time, In the crowded days that remained of her visit, to spend another afternoon 
with a woman whose life had so definitely and 
deliberately diverged from hers;  and whom, 
 as had been pointed out, she might never see 
again. 

Why In the world had she made such a 
promise? 

As she went up the steps to her father's 
house, thinking with what interest and amazement he would listen to her story of the afternoon's encounter, It came to her that Clare 
had omitted to mention her marriage name. 
She had referred to her husband as Jack. That 
was all. Had that, Irene asked herself, been 
intentional ? 

Clare had only to pick up the telephone 
to communicate with her, or to drop her a card, 
or to jump into a taxi. But she couldn't reach 
Clare in any way. Nor could anyone else to 
whom she might speak of their meeting. 

"As if I should!" 

Her key turned In the lock. She went in. 
Her father, it seemed, hadn't come in yet. 

Irene decided that she wouldn't, after 
all, say anything to him about Clare Kendry. 
She  had,  she  told herself,  no  inclination  to 
 Speak of a person who held so low an opinion 
of her loyalty, or her discretion. And certainly 
she had no desire or Intention of making the 
slightest effort about Tuesday. Nor any other 
day for that matter. 

She was through with Clare Kendry. 
