# Four

The next morning, the day of her departure 
for New York, had brought a letter, which, at 
first glance, she had instinctively known came 
from Clare Kendry, though she couldn't remember ever having had a letter from her before. Ripping it open and looking at the signature, she saw that she had been right in her 
guess. She wouldn't, she told herself, read it. 
She hadn't the time. And, besides, she had no 
wish to be reminded of the afternoon before. 
As it was, she felt none too fresh for her journey; she had had a wretched night. And all because of Clare's innate lack of consideration 
for the feelings of others. 

But she did read it. After father and 
friends had waved good-bye, and she was being hurled eastward, she became possessed of 
an uncontrollable curiosity to see what Clare 
had said about yesterday. For what, she asked, 
as she took it out of her bag and opened it, 
 could she, what could anyone, say about a thing 
like that? 

Clare Kendry had said: 

'Rene dear: 

However am I to thank you for your visit? 
I know you are feeling that under the circumstances 
I ought not to have asked you to come, or, rather, insisted. But if you could know how glad, how excitingly happy, I was to meet you and how I ached to 
see more of you (to see everybody and couldn't), you 
would understand my wanting to see you again, and 
maybe forgive me a little. 

My love to you always and always and to your 
dear father, and all my poor thanks. 

Clare. 

And there was a postcript which said: 

It may be, 'Rene dear, it may just be, that, 
after all, your way may be the wiser and infinitely happier one. I'm not sure just now. At least not so sure as 
I have been. 

c. 

But the letter hadn't conciliated Irene. 
Her Indignation was not lessened by Clare's 
flattering reference to her wiseness. As if, she 
 thought wrathfully, anything could take away 
the humiliation, or any part of it, of what she 
had gone through yesterday afternoon for 
Clare Kendry. 

With an unusual methodicalness she 
tore the offending letter into tiny ragged 
squares that fluttered down and made a small 
heap in her black crepe de Chine lap. The destruction completed, she gathered them up, rose, 
and moved to the train's end. Standing there, 
she dropped them over the railing and watched 
them scatter, on tracks, on cinders, on forlorn 
grass, in rills of dirty water. 

And that, she told herself, was that. 
The chances were one in a million that she 
would ever again lay eyes on Clare Kendry. If, 
however, that millionth chance should turn up, 
she had only to turn away her eyes, to refuse 
her recognition. 

She dropped Clare out of her mind and 
turned her thoughts to her own affairs. To 
home, to the boys, to Brian. Brian, who in the 
morning would be waiting for her in the great 
clamourous station. She hoped that he had been 
 comfortable and not too lonely without her and 
the boys. Not so lonely that that old, queer, unhappy restlessness had begun again within him; 
that craving for some place strange and different, which at the beginning of her marriage 
she had had to make such strenuous efforts to 
repress, and which yet faintly alarmed her, 
though it now sprang up at gradually lessening intervals. 
