# Two

Five days had gone by since Clare Kendry's 
appealing letter. Irene Redfield had not replied 
to it. Nor had she had any other word from 
Clare. 

She had not carried out her first intention of writing at once because on going back 
to the letter for Clare's address, she had come 
upon something which, in the rigour of her determination to maintain unbroken between them 
the wall that Clare herself had raised, she had 
forgotten, or not fully noted. It was the fact 
that Clare had requested her to direct her answer to the post office's general delivery. 

That had angered Irene, and increased 
her disdain and contempt for the other. 

Tearing the letter across, she had flung 
it into the ' scrap-basket. It wasn't so much 
Clare's carefulness and her desire for secrecy in 
their relations — Irene understood the need for 
that — as that Clare should have doubted her 
discretion, implied that she might not be cau tious in the wording of her reply and the choice 
of a posting-box. Having always had complete 
confidence in her own good judgment and tact, 
Irene couldn't bear to have anyone seem to 
question them. Certainly not Clare Kendry. 

In another, calmer moment she decided 
that It was, after all, better to answer nothing, 
to explain nothing, to refuse nothing; to dispose of the matter simply by not writing at all. 
Clare, of whom it couldn't be said that she 
was stupid, would not mistake the imphcation 
of that silence. She might — and Irene was sure 
that she would — choose to ignore it and write 
again, but that didn't matter. The whole thing 
would be very easy. The basket for all letters, 
silence for their answers. 

Most likely she and Clare would never 
meet again. Well, she, for one, could endure 
that. Since childhood their lives had never really 
touched. Actually they were strangers. Strangers in their ways and means of living. Strangers in their desires and ambitions. Strangers 
even in their racial consciousness. Between them 
the barrier was just as high, just as broad, and 
just as firm as If in Clare did not run that strain 
of black blood. In truth, it was higher, broader, 
and firmer; because for her there were perils, 
not known, or imagined, by those others who 
had no such secrets to alarm or endanger them. 

The day was getting on toward evening. 
It was past the middle of October. There had 
been a week of cold rain, drenching the rotting 
leaves which had fallen from the poor trees 
that lined the street on which the Redfields' 
house was located, and sending a damp air of 
penetrating chill into the house, with a hint of 
cold days to come. In Irene's room a low fire 
was burning. Outside, only a dull grey light was 
left of the day. Inside, lamps had already been 
lighted. 

From the floor above there was the 
sound of young voices. Sometimes Junior's serious and positive; again, Ted's deceptively gracious one. Often there was laughter, or the 
noise of commotion, tussling, or toys being 
slammed down. 

Junior, tall for his age, was almost in-  credibly like his father in feature and colouring; but his temperament was hers, practical 
and determined, rather than Brian's. Ted, 
speculative and withdrawn, was, apparently, 
less positive in his ideas and desires. About him 
there was a deceiving air of candour that was, 
Irene knew, like his father's show of reasonable acquiescence. If, for the time being, and 
with a charming appearance of artlessness, he 
submitted to the force of superior strength, or 
some other immovable condition or circumstance, it was because of his intense dislike of 
scenes and unpleasant argument. Brian over 
again. 

Gradually Irene's thought slipped away 
from Junior and Ted, to become wholly absorbed in their father. 

The old fear, with strength increased, 
the fear for the future, had again laid its hand 
on her. And, try as she might, she could not 
shake it off. It was as if she had admitted to 
herself that against that easy surface of her 
husband's concordance with her wishes, which 
had, since the war had given him back to her 
 physically unimpaired, covered an Increasing 
Inclination to tear himself and his possessions 
loose from their proper setting, she was helpless. 

The chagrin which she had felt at her 
first failure to subvert this latest manifestation 
of his discontent had receded, leaving In Its 
wake an uneasy depression. Were all her efforts, 
all her labours, to make up to him that one loss, 
all her silent striving to prove to him that her 
way had been best, all her ministrations to him, 
all her outward sinking of self, to count for 
nothing In some unpercelved sudden moment? 
And If so, what, then, would be the consequences to the boys? To her? To Brian himself? Endless searching had brought no answer 
to these questions. There was only an Intense 
weariness from their shuttle-like procession In 
her brain. 

The noise and commotion from above 
grew Increasingly louder. Irene was about to go 
to the stairway and request the boys to be 
quieter In their play when she heard the doorbell ringing. 
 Now, who was that likely to be? She 
listened to Zulena's heels, faintly tapping on 
their way to the door, then to the shifting sound 
of her feet on the steps, then to her light knock 
on the bedroom door. 

"Yes. Come In," Irene told her. 

Zulena stood In the doorway. She said: 
"Someone to see you, Mrs. Redfield." Her 
tone was discreetly regretful, as If to convey 
that she was reluctant to disturb her mistress 
at that hour, and for a stranger. "A Mrs. Bellew." 

Clare I 

''Oh dear! Tell her, Zulena," Irene began, "that I can't — No. I'll see her. Please 
bring her up here." 

She heard Zulena pass down the hall, 
down the stairs, then stood up, smoothing out 
the tumbled green and Ivory draperies of her 
dress with light stroking pats. At the mirror 
she dusted a little powder on her nose and 
brushed out her hair. 

She meant to tell Clare Kendry at once, 
and definitely, that It was of no use, her com ing, that she couldn't be responsible, that she'd 
talked it over with Brian, who had agreed with 
her that it was wiser, for Clare's own sake, to 
refrain — 

But that was as far as she got in her 
rehearsal. For Clare had come softly into the 
room without knocking, and before Irene could 
greet her, had dropped a kiss on her dark 
curls. 

Looking at the woman before her, Irene 
Redfield had a sudden inexplicable onrush of 
affectionate feeling. Reaching out, she grasped 
Clare's two hand in her own and cried with 
something like awe in her voice: "Dear God! 
But aren't you lovely, Clare!" 

Clare tossed that aside. Like the furs 
and small blue hat which she threw on the bed 
before seating herself slantwise in Irene's favourite chair, with one foot curled under her. 

"Didn't you mern to answer my letter, 
*Rene?" she asked gravely. 

Irene looked away. She had that uncomfortable feeling that one has when one has 
not been wholly kind or wholly true. 
 Clare went on: ''Every day I went to 
that nasty little post-office place. I'm sure they 
were all beginning to think that I'd been carrying on an illicit love-affair and that the man had 
thrown me over. Every morning the same answer: 'Nothing for you.' I got into an awful 
fright, thinking that something might have 
happened to your letter, or to mine. And half 
the nights I would lie awake looking out at 
the watery stars — hopeless things, the stars — 
worrying and wondering. But at last it soaked 
in, that you hadn't written and didn't Intend 
to. And then — well, as soon as ever I'd seen 
Jack off for Florida, I came straight here. And 
now, 'Rene, please tell me quite frankly why 
you didn't answer my letter." 

"Because, you see — " Irene broke off 
and kept Clare waiting while she lit a cigarette, 
blew out the match, and dropped it Into a tray. 
She was trying to collect her arguments, for 
some sixth sense warned her that It was going 
to be harder than she thought to convince Clare 
Kendry of the folly of Harlem for her. Finally 
she proceeded: "I can't help thinking that you 
 ought not to come up here, ought not to run 
the risk of knowing Negroes." 

"You mean you don't want me, 'Rene?" 

Irene hadn't supposed that anyone could 
look so hurt. She said, quite gently, "No, Clare, 
it's not that. But even you must see that it's 
terribly foolish, and not just the right thing." 

The tinkle of Clare's laugh rang out, 
while she passed her hands over the bright 
sweep of her hair. "Oh, 'Rene!" she cried, 
"you're priceless ! And you haven't changed a 
bit. The right thing!" Leaning forward, she 
looked curiously into Irene's disapproving 
brown eyes. "You don't, you really can't mean 
exactly that! Nobody could. It's simply unbelievable." 

Irene was on her feet before she realized that she had risen. "What I really mean," 
she retorted, "is that it's dangerous and that 
you ought not to run such silly risks. No one 
ought to. You least of all." 

Her voice was brittle. For into her 
mind had come a thought, strange and irrelevant,  a  suspicion,  that  had  surprised  and 
 shocked her and driven her to her feet. It was 
that in spite of her determined selfishness the 
woman before her was yet capable of heights 
and depths of feeling that she, Irene Redfield, 
had never known. Indeed, never cared to know. 
The thought, the suspicion, was gone as quickly 
as it had come. 

Clare said: "Oh, me!" 
/     Irene touched her arm caressingly, as if 
in contrition for that flashing thought. "Yes, 
Clare, you. It's not safe. Not safe at all." 

"Safe!" 

It seemed to Irene that Clare had 
snapped her teeth down on the word and then 
flung It from her. And for another flying second she had that suspicion of Clare's ability for 
a quality of feeling that was to her strange, and 
even repugnant. She was aware, too, of a dim 
premonition of some impending disaster. It was 
as If Clare Kendry had said to her, for whom 
safety, security, were all-important: "Safe! 
Damn being safe!" and meant it. 

With a gesture of impatience she sat 
down. In a voice of cool formality, she said: 
 ''Brian and I have talked the whole thing over 
carefully and decided that it isn't wise. He 
says it's always a dangerous business, this coming back. He's seen more than one come to 
grief because of it. And, Clare, considering 
everything — Mr. Bellew's attitude and all that 
— don't you think you ought to be as careful as 
you can?" 

Clare's deep voice broke the small silence that had followed Irene's speech. She 
said, speaking almost plaintively: "I ought to 
have known. It's Jack. I don't blame you for 
being angry, though I must say you behaved 
beautifully that day. But I did think you'd 
understand, 'Rene. It was that, partly, that has 
made me want to see other people. It just 
swooped down and changed everything. If it 
hadn't been for that, I'd have gone on to the 
end, never seeing any of you. But that did 
something to me, and I've been so lonely since! 
You can't know. Not close to a single soul. 
Never anyone to really talk to." 

Irene pressed out her cigarette. While 
doing so, she saw again the vision of Clare 
 Kendry staring disdainfully down at the face of 
her father, and thought that it would be like 
that that she would look at her husband if he 
lay dead before her. 

Her own resentment was swept aside 
and her voice held an accent of pity as she exclaimed: "Why, Clare! I didn't know. Forgive me. I feel like seven beasts. It was stupid 
of me not to realize." 

"No. Not at all. You couldn't. Nobody, 
none of you, could," Clare moaned. The black 
eyes filled with tears that ran down her cheeks 
and spilled into her lap, ruining the priceless 
velvet of her dress. Her long hands were a little 
uplifted and clasped tightly together. Her effort to speak moderately was obvious, but not 
successful. "How could you know? How could ' 
you? You're free. You're happy. And," with 
faint derision, "safe." 

Irene passed over that touch of derision, for the poignant rebellion of the other's 
words had brought the tears to her own eyes, 
though she didn't allow them to fall. The truth 
was that she knew weeping did not become her. 
 Few women, she imagined, wept as attractively 
as Clare. I"Tm beginning to believe," she murmured, "that no one is ever completely happy, 
or free, or safe." ) 

"Well, tfien, what does it matter? One 
risk more or less, if we're not safe anyway, if 
even you're not, it can't make all the difference 
in the world. It can't to me. Besides, I'm used 
to risks. And this isn't such a big one as you're 
trying to make it." 

"Oh, but it is. And it can make all the 
difference in the world. There's your little girl, 
Clare. Think of the consequences to her." 

Clare's face took on a startled look, as 
though she were totally unprepared for this 
new weapon with which Irene had assailed her. 
Seconds passed, during which she sat with 
stricken eyes and compressed lips. "I think," 
she said at last, "that being a mother is the 
cruellest thing in the world." Her clasped hands 
swayed forward and back again, and her scarlet 
mouth trembled irrepressibly. 

"Yes," Irene softly agreed. For a moment she was unable to say more, so accurately 
 had Clare put into words that which, not so 
definitely defined, was so often in her own heart 
of late. At the same time she was conscious that 
here, to her hand, was a reason which could not 
be lightly brushed aside. "Yes," she repeated, 
"and the most responsible, Clare. We mothers 
are all responsible for the security and happiness of our children. Think what it would mean 
to your Margery if Mr. Bellew should find out. 
You'd probably lose her. And even if you 
didn't, nothing that concerned her would ever 
be the same again. He'd never forget that she 
had Negro blood. And if she should learn — 
Well, I believe that after twelve it is too late 
to learn a thing like that. She'd never forgive 
you. You may be used to risks, but this is one 
you mustn't take, Clare. It's a selfish whim, an 
unnecessary and — 

"Yes, Zulena, what is it?" she inquired, 
a trifle tartly, of the servant who had silently 
materialized in the doorway. 

"The telephone's for you, Mrs. Redfield. It's Mr. Wentworth." 

"All  right.  Thank  you.  I'll  take  it 
 here." And, with a muttered apology to Clare, 
she took up the Instrument. 

"Hello. . . . Yes, Hugh. ... Oh, 
quite. . . . And you? . . . I'm sorry, every 
single thing's gone. . . . Oh, too bad. . . . 
Ye-es, I s'pose you could. Not very pleasant, 
though. . . . Yes, of course. In a pinch everything goes. . . . Walt! I've got It! I'll change 
mine with whoever's next to you, and you can 
have that. . . . No. ... I mean It. . . . 
I'll be so busy I shan't know whether I'm sitting or standing. ... As long as Brian has a 
place to drop down now and then. . . . Not a 
single soul. . . . No, don't. ., . . That's 
nice. . . . My love to Blanca. . . . I'll see 
to It right away and call you back. . . . Goodbye." 

She hung up and turned back to Clare, a 
little frown on her softly chiselled features. 
"It's the N. W. L. dance," she explained, "the 
Negro Welfare League, you know. I'm on the 
ticket committee, or, rather, I am the committee. Thank heaven It comes off tomorrow 
night and doesn't happen again for a year. I'm 
 about crazy,  and now I've  got to persuade 
somebody to change boxes with me." 

"That wasn't," Clare asked, "Hugh 
Wentworth? Not the Hugh Wentworth?" 

Irene incHned her head. On her face 
was a tiny triumphant smile. "Yes, the Hugh 
Wentworth. D'you know him?" 

"No. How should I? But I do know 
about him. And I've read a book or two of 
his." 

"Awfully good, aren't they?" 

"U-umm, I s'pose so. Sort of contemptuous, I thought. As if he more or less despised 
everything and everybody." 

"I shouldn't be a bit surprised if he did. 
Still, he's about earned the right to. Lived on 
the edges of nowhere in at least three continents. Been through every danger in all kinds 
of savage places. It's no wonder he thinks the 
rest of us are a lazy self-pampering lot. Hugh's 
a dear, though, generous as one of the twelve 
disciples ; give you the shirt off his back. Bianca 
— that's his wife — is nice too." 
 "And he's coming up here to your 
dance?" 

Irene asked why not. 

"It seems rather curious, a man like 
that, going to a Negro dance." 

This, Irene told her, was the year 1927 
in the city of New York, and hundreds of 
white people of Hugh Wentworth's type came 
to affairs in Harlem, more all the time. So 
many that Brian had said: "Pretty soon the 
coloured people won't be allowed in at all, or 
will have to sit in Jim Crowed sections." 

"What do they come for?" 

"Same reason you're here, to see Negroes." 

"But why?" 

"Various motives," Irene explained. "A 
few purely and frankly to enjoy themselves. 
Others to get material to turn into shekels. 
More, to gaze on these great and near great 
while they gaze on the Negroes." 

Clare clapped her hand. " 'Rene, suppose I come too ! It sounds terribly Interesting 
 and amusing. And I don't see why I shouldn't." 

Irene, who was regarding her through 
narrowed eyelids, had the same thought that 
she had had two years ago on the roof of the 
Drayton, that Clare Kendry was just a shade 
too good-looking. Her tone was on the edge of 
irony as she said: "You mean because so many 
other white people go?" 

A pale rose-colour came Into Clare's 
ivory cheeks. She lifted a hand In protest. 
"Don't be silly! Certainly not! I mean that in 
a crowd of that kind I shouldn't be noticed." 

On the contrary, was Irene's opinion. 
It might be even doubly dangerous. Some friend 
or acquaintance of John Bellew or herself 
might see and recognize her. 

At that, Clare laughed for a long time, 
little musical trills following one another in 
sequence after sequence. It was as if the 
thought of any friend of John Bellew's going 
to a Negro dance was to her the most amusing 
thing in the world. 

"I don't think," she said, when she had 
done laughing, "we need worry about that." 

" / ^y Irene, however, wasn't so sure. But all 
her efforts to dissuade Clare were useless. To 
her, "You never can tell whom you're likely to 
meet there," Clare's rejoinder was: "I'll take 
my chance on getting by." 

"Besides, you won't know a soul and I 
shall be too busy to look after you. You'll be 
bored stiff." 

"I won't, I won't. If nobody asks me to 
dance, not even Dr. Redfield, I'll just sit and 
gaze on the great and the near great, too. Do, 
'Rene, be polite and invite me." 

Irene turned away from the caress of 
Clare's smile, saying promptly and positively: 
"I will not." 

"I mean to go anyway," Clare retorted, 
and her voice was no less positive than Irene's. 

"Oh, no. You couldn't possibly go there 
alone. It's a public thing. All sorts of people 
go, anybody who can pay a dollar, even ladies 
of easy virtue looking for trade. If you were 
to go there alone, you might be mistaken for 
one of them, and that wouldn't be too pleas

ant." 

 Clare laughed again. "Thanks. I never 
have been. It might be amusing. I'm warning 
you, 'Rene, that if you're not going to be nice 
and take me, I'll still be among those present. 
I suppose, my dollar's as good as anyone's." 

"Oh, the dollar! Don't be a fool, 
Claire. I don't care where you go, or what you 
do. All I'm concerned with is the unpleasantness and possible danger which your going 
might incur, because of your situation. To put 
it frankly, I shouldn't like to be mixed up in 
any row of the kind." She had risen again as 
she spoke and was standing at the window 
lifting and spreading the small yellow chrysanthemums in the grey stone jar on the sill. Her 
hands shook slightly, for she was in a near 
rage of impatience and exasperation. 

Claire's face looked strange, as if she 
wanted to cry again. One of her satin-covered 
feet swung restlessly back and forth. She said 
vehemently, violently almost: "Damn Jack! 
He keeps me out of everything. Everything I 
want. I could kill him ! I expect I shall, some 
day." 
 "I wouldn't," Irene advised her, "you 
see, there's still capital punishment, In this state 
at least. And really, Clare, after everything's 
said, I can't see that you've a right to put all the 
blame on him. You've got to admit that there's 
his side to the thing. You didn't tell him you 
were coloured, so he's got no way of knowing 
about this hankering of yours after Negroes, 
or that It galls you to fury to hear them called 
niggers and black devils. As far as I can see, 
you'll just have to endure some things and give 
up others. As we've said before, everything 
must be paid for. Do, please, be reasonable." 

But Clare, It was plain, had shut away 
reason as well as caution. She shook her head. 
"I can't, I can't," she said. "I would If I could, 
but I can't. You don't know, you can't realize 
how I want to see Negroes, to be with them 
again, to talk with them, to hear them laugh." 

And In the look she gave Irene, there 
was something groping, and hopeless, and yet 
so absolutely determined that It was like an 
Image of the futile searching and the firm resolution In Irene's own soul, and Increased the 
 feeling of doubt and compunction that had 
been growing within her about Clare Kendry. 

She gave in. 

"Oh, come if you want to. I s'pose 
you're right. Once can't do such a terrible lot 
of harm." 

Pushing aside Clare's extravagant 
thanks, for immediately she was sorry that she 
had consented, she said briskly: "Should you 
like to come up and see my boys?" 

"I'd love to." 

They went up, Irene thinking that Brian 
would consider that she'd behaved like a spineless fool. And he would be right. She certainly 
had. 

Clare was smiling. She stood in the 
doorway of the boys' playroom, her shadowy 
eyes looking down on Junior and Ted, who had 
sprung apart from their tusselling. Junior's face 
had a funny little look of resentment. Ted's 
was blank. 

Clare said: "Please don't be cross. Of 
course, I know I've gone and spoiled every thing. But maybe, If I promise not to get too 
much in the way, you'll let me come in, just 
the same." 

"Sure, come in if you want to," Ted told 
her. "We can't stop you, you know." He 
smiled and made her a little bow and then 
turned away to a shelf that held his favourite 
books. Taking one down, he settled himself in 
a chair and began to read. 

Junior said nothing, did nothing, merely 
stood there waiting. 

"Get up, Ted! That's rude. This is 
Theodore, Mrs. Bellew. Please excuse his bad 
manners. He does know better. And this is 
Brian junior. Mrs. Bellew is an old friend of 
mother's. We used to play together when we 
were little girls." 

Clare had gone and Brian had telephoned that he'd been detained and would have 
his dinner downtown. Irene was a little glad 
for that. She was going out later herself, and 
that meant she wouldn't, probably, see Brian 
 until morning and so could put off for a few 
more hours speaking of Clare and the N. W. L. 
dance. 

She was angry with herself and with 
Clare. But more with herself, for having permitted Clare to tease her Into doing something 
that Brian had, all but expressly, asked her not 
to do. She didn't want him ruffled, not just 
then, not while he was possessed of that unreasonable restless feeling. 

She was annoyed, too, because she was 
aware that she had consented to something 
which, if It went beyond the dance, would Involve her In numerous petty inconveniences and 
evasions. And not only at home with Brian, but 
outside with friends and acquaintances. The disagreeable possibilities in connection with Clare 
Kendry's coming among them loomed before 
her In endless irritating array. 

Clare, It seemed, still retained her ability to secure the thing that she wanted in the 
face of any opposition, and in utter disregard 
of the convenience and desire of others. About 
her there was some quality, hard and persistent, 
 with the strength and endurance of rock, that 
would not be beaten or ignored. She couldn't, 
Irene thought, have had an entirely serene life. 
Not with that dark secret for ever crouching 
in the background of her consciousness. And 
yet she hadn't the air of a woman whose life 
had been touched by uncertainty or suffering. 
Pain, fear, and grief were things that left their 
mark on people. Even love, that exquisite torturing emotion, left its subtle traces on the 
countenance. 

But Clare — she had remained almost 
what she had always been, an attractive, somewhat lonely child — selfish, wilful, and disturbing. 


