# Three

The things which Irene Redfield remembered 
afterward about the Negro Welfare League 
dance seemed, to her, unimportant and unrelated. 

She remembered the not quite derisive 
smile with which Brian had cloaked his vexation when she informed him — oh, so apologetically— that she had promised to take Clare, 
and related the conversation of her visit. 

She remembered her ov/n little choked 
exclamation of admiration, when, on coming 
downstairs a few minutes later than she had 
intended, she had rushed into the living-room 
where Brian was waiting and had found Clare 
there too. Clare, exquisite, golden, fragrant, 
flaunting, in a stately gown of shining black 
taffeta, whose long, full skirt lay in graceful 
folds about her slim golden feet; her glistening hair drawn smoothly back into a small 
twist at the nape of her neck; her eyes spar kllng like dark jewels. Irene, with her new rosecoloured chiffon frock ending at the knees, and 
her cropped curls, felt dowdy and commonplace. She regretted that she hadn't counselled 
Clare to wear something ordinary and inconspicuous. What on earth would Brian think of 
deliberate courting of attention? But if Clare 
Kendry's appearance had in it anything that 
was, to Brian Redfield, annoying or displeasing, 
the fact was not discernible to his wife as, with 
an uneasy feeling of guilt, she stood there looking into his face while Clare explained that she 
and he had made their own introductions, accompanying her words with a little deferential 
smile for Brian, and receiving in return one of 
his amused, slightly mocking smiles. 

She remembered Clare's saying, as they 
sped northward: "You know, I feel exactly as 
I used to on the Sunday we went to the Christmas-tree celebration. I knew there was to be a 
surprise for me and couldn't quite guess what 
it was to be. I am so excited. You can't possibly 
imagine ! It's marvellous to be really on the 
way! I can hardly believe it!" 

At her words and tone a chilly wave of 
scorn had crept through Irene. All those superlatives ! She said, taking care to speak indifferently: "Well, maybe in some ways you will be 
surprised, more, probably, than you anticipate." 

Brian, at the wheel, had thrown back: 
"And then again, she won't be so very surprised after all, for it'll no doubt be about what 
she expects. Like the Christmas-tree." 

She remembered rushing around here 
and there, consulting with this person and that 
one, and now and then snatching a part of a 
dance with some man whose dancing she particularly liked. 

She remembered catching glimpses of 
Clare in the whirling crowd, dancing, sometimes with a white man, more often with a 
Negro, frequently with Brian. Irene was glad 
that he was being nice to Clare, and glad that 
Clare was having the opportunity to discover 
that some coloured men were superior to some 
white men. 

She remembered a conversation she had 
with Hugh Wentworth in a free half-hour when 
 she had dropped into a chair in an emptied box 
and let her gaze wander over the bright crowd 
below. 

Young men, old men, white men, black 
men; youthful women, older women, pink 
women, golden women; fat men, thin men, tall 
men, short men; stout women, slim women, 
stately women, small women moved by. An old 
nursery rhyme popped into her head. She 
turned to Wentworth, who had just taken a 
seat beside her, and recited it: 

''Rich man, poor man, 
Beggar man,  thief, 
Doctor, lawyer, 
Indian chief." 

'Tes," Wentworth said, "that's it. 
Everybody seems to be here and a few more. 
But what I'm trying to find out is the name, 
status, and race of the blonde beauty out of the 
fairy-tale. She's dancing with Ralph Hazelton 
at the moment. Nice study in contrasts, that." 

It was. Clare fair and golden, like a 
sunlit day. Hazelton dark, with gleaming eyes, 
like a moonlit night. 
 "She's a girl I used to know a long 
time ago In Chicago. And she wanted especially 
to meet you." 

" 'S awfully good of her, Fm sure. And 
now, alas ! the usual thing's happened. All these 
others, these — er — 'gentlemen of colour' have 
driven a mere Nordic from her mind." 

''Stuff!" 

" 'S a fact, and what happens to all the 
ladles of my superior race who're lured up 
here. Look at Blanca. Have I laid eyes on her 
tonight except In spots, here and there, being 
twirled about by some Ethiopian? I have not." 

"But, Hugh, you've got to admit that 
the average coloured man is a better dancer 
than the average white man — that Is, If the 
celebrities and 'butter and egg' men who find 
their way up here are fair specimens of white 
Terpslchorean art." 

"Not having tripped the light fantastic 
with any of the males, I'm not In a position to 
argue the point. But I don't think It's merely 
that. 'S something else, some other attraction. 
They're always raving about the good looks of 
 some Negro, preferably an unusually dark one. 
Take Hazelton there, for example. Dozens of 
women have declared him to be fascinatingly 
handsome. How about you, Irene? Do you 
think he's — er — ravishingly beautiful?" 

"I do not! And I don't think the 
others do either. Not honestly, I mean. I think 
that what they feel Is — well, a kind of emotional excitement. You know, the sort of thing 
you feel in the presence of something strange, 
and even, perhaps, a bit repugnant to you; 
something so different that it's really at the 
opposite end of the pole from all your accustomed notions of beauty." 

"Damned if I don't think you're halfway right!" 

"I'm sure I am. Completely. (Except, 
of course, when it's just patronizing kindness 
on their part.) And I know coloured girls 
who've experienced the same thing — the other 
way round, naturally." 

"And the men? You don't subscribe to 
the general opinion about their reason for coming up here. Purely predatory. Or, do you?" 
 "N-no. More curious, I should say." 

Wentworth, whose eyes were a clouded 
amber colour, had given her a long, searching 
look that was really a stare. He said: "All 
this is awfully interestin', Irene. We've got to 
havw. a long talk about it some time soon. 
There's your friend from Chicago, first time up 
here and all that. A case in point." 

Irene's smile had only just lifted the 
corners of her painted lips. A match blazed in 
Wentworth's broad hands as he lighted her 
cigarette and his own, and flickered out before 
he asked: ''Or isn't she?" 

Her smile changed to a laugh. "Oh, 
Hugh! You're so clever. You usually know 
everything. Even how to tell the sheep from 
the goats. What do you think? Is she?" 

He blew a long contemplative wreath 
of smoke. "Damned if I know! I'll be as sure 
as anything that I've learned the trick. And 
then In the next minute I'll find I couldn't pick 
some of 'em if my life depended on It." 

"Well, don't let that worry you. Nobody can. Not by looking." 
 "Not by looking, eh? Meaning?" 

"I'm afraid I can't explain. Not clearly. 
There are ways. But they're not definite or 
tangible." 

"Feeling of kinship, or something like 
that?" 

"Good heavens, no ! Nobody has that, 
except for their in-laws." 

"Right again 1 But go on about the sheep 
and the goats." 

"Well, take my own experience with 
Dorothy Thompkins. I'd met her four or five 
times, in groups and crowds of people, before 
I knew she wasn't a Negro. One day I went to 
an awful tea, terribly dicty. Dorothy was there. 
We got talking. In less than five minutes, I 
knew she was 'fay.' Not from anything she did 
or said or anything In her appearance. Just — 
just something. A thing that couldn't be registered." 

"Yes, I understand what you mean. 
Yet lots of people 'pass' all the time." 

"Not on our side, Hugh. It's easy for 
a Negro to 'pass' for white. But I don't think 
 it would be so simple for a white person to 
*pass' for coloured." 

"Never thought of that." 

"No, you wouldn't. Why should you?" 

He regarded her critically through mists 
of smoke. "Slippln' me, Irene?" 

She said soberly: "Not you, Hugh. I'm 
too fond of you. And you're too sincere." 

And she remembered that towards the 
end of the dance Brian had come to her and 
said: "I'll drop you first and then run Clare 
down." And that he had been doubtful of her 
discretion when she had explained to him that 
he wouldn't have to bother because she had 
asked Bianca Wentworth to take her down 
with them. Did she, he had asked, think It had 
been wise to tell them about Clare? 

"I told them nothing," she said sharply, 
for she was unbearably tired, "except that she 
was at the Walsingham. It's on their way. And, 
really, I haven't thought anything about the 
wisdom of it, but now that I do, I'd say it's 
much better for them to take her than you." 

"As you please. She's your friend, you  know/' he had answered, with a disclaiming 
shrug of his shoulders. 

Except for these few unconnected things 
the dance faded to a blurred memory, its outlines mingling with those of other dances of its 
kind that she had attended in the past and 
would attend in the future. 
